Feature/20 Registration Service initial ADR (#7)
agera-edc/RegistrationService: docs/developer/decision-records/2022-06-13-registration-service/README.md

> # Registration Service

Reviewer: could we make the folder name more specific?

Registration Service is a component of the dataspace providing Dataspace Authority. In current version the Dataspace Authority is centralised. In future 
versions, the Authority could also be partly or fully decentralized.

Responsibilities of the Dataspace Authority in MVD version:
- Establishes a DID defining the Dataspace.
- Manages policies defining who is allowed to participate in the dataspace.

> - Manages enrollment process of the Dataspace participants.

Reviewer: enrollment/onboarding seem to be used as synonyms. Make uniform

Author: Changed to enrollment

## Deployment

The Registration Service will be deployed as a separate component in the Dataspace environment.

## Identity

The Registration Service will have its own `did:web` document deployed, that points to the enrollment API endpoint.

Please note that in the future versions the `did:web` document points to the Self-Description Document url that allows to retreive the enrollment API endpoint. 
MVD version is using a simplification omitting the Self-Description Document in the process.

## Operations

This document specifies only operations supported by the Registration Service in MVD version:
- Dataspace participant onboarding
- Listing all Dataspace participants

Other operations that will be supported in future versions of the Registration Service:
- Dataspace participant offboarding
- Blacklisting

### 1. Onboarding

#### Participants

1. Company1, an entity which intends to become a Dataspace participant
2. The Dataspace Authority, which manages the enrollment process

#### Overview

A Client for Company1 initiates the enrollment process by resolving and contacting the enrollment API endpoint for the Dataspace Authority. The client could be e.g. a CLI utility.

> The Dataspace Authority enrollment service obtains Verifiable Credentials from Company1 to determine whether it meets enrollment policies. The enrollment service then issues a Verifiable Credential that establishes membership and pushes it to Company 1's Identity Hub, and stores membership and certificate information.

Reviewer: "DA", "Dataspace Authority enrollment service", "Registration Service", "Participant registry", "Dataspace registry" seem to be used as synonyms. Make uniform

Author: As I understood the Registration Service in MVD version is a Dataspace Authority. That's why sometimes in the doc it's mentioned as Reg Service and sometimes as Dataspace Authority for more generic meaning. 
I will try to make it more understandable

In simple scenarios, enrollment could be fast and fully automated. However, in advanced scenarios, enrollment policies could require interactions with external systems, and even manual processes. Therefore, it is implemented asynchronously.

> There could be different "types" of onboarding, e.g. onboarding a participant or a credential issuer, so the architecture has to support that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Delete this until we can make the point more specific

#### Flow sequence

> ![dataspace-enrollment](dataspace-enrollment.png)

Reviewer: the diagram shows a sync version of the flow. Update to account for async behavior? E.g. participant is stored in registry immediately, and 6 is actually a state update

"Participant registry" should probably be renamed to "Participant store" or similar

> As a precondition to this operation Company1 knows the DID URL of the Dataspace it intends to join.

Reviewer: Move to a "Preconditions" section and add other necessary preconditions (e.g. identity hub for company1 deployed). See https://github.com/agera-edc/MinimumViableDataspaceOld/blob/ad8ff7b97905f784a4d9107d129cc3f1cd3102c2/docs/developer/decision-records/2022-05-10-dataspace-communication/README.md?plain=1#L61

1. The Client for Company1 initiates the enrollment process based on the Dataspace DID URL. It retrieves the DID Document, and parses it to retrieve Dataspace 
   enrollment HTTP endpoint.
2. The client needs access to the Company1 Private Key to sign a JWS. The client sends an HTTP request to the Dataspace Authority enrollment endpoint. The 
   request is accepted for asynchronous processing.
3. The DA authenticates the request...

> 4. ... and retrieves credentials from Company1's Identity Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. ... and retrieves Verifiable Presentations from Company1's Identity Hub.
```

> 5. The DA authorizes the request by applying the Dataspace enrollment policy on the obtained Verifiable Credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The DA authorizes the request by applying the Dataspace enrollment policy on the obtained Verifiable Presentations.
```

> 6. The DA stores membership information in its registry. At the very least, this includes Company 1's DID URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The DA stores membership information in its registry. This includes Company 1's DID URL.
```

7. The DA issues and signs a membership Verifiable Credential as an X.509 Certificate.
8. The DA sends the Verifiable Credential to Company1's Identity Hub for storage. It uses the Identity Hub bearer token (from the Distributed authorization 
   sub-flow) to authenticate the request.
9. Company1's Identity Hub validates the bearer token and stores the membership Verifiable Credential.

#### Data model 

To initiate onboarding, clients send an `OnboardingRequest` to the dataspace authority's enrollment API endpoint:

```java
public class OnboardingRequest {
    /**
     * For the MVD this is a JWT that contains the candidate's DID URI, signed with its private key.
     * In future versions this could also contain other tokens.
     */

>     private String identityToken;

Reviewer: this is in the JWS Authentication header, therefore the request can be empty.

}
```

> Upon receiving an OnboardingRequest, the registration service creates a participant record, that contains all information about a participant.

Reviewer: I think we should avoid mixing architecture and code design in one ADR. It's fine to have 'conceptual level' domain design here, but we shouldn't document Java types especially if they are the internals (as opposed to the API interface) of the service.

At this stage I believe we only need DID URI (which is also the unique identifier) and ParticipantStatus

```java
public class ParticipantRecord {
    private String id; //internal identifier
    private String dataspaceIdentifier; //did-uri, or any other external identifier of the participant
    private String name; //for convenience, may be omitted
    private ParticipantStatusInfo status; // see below
    private Map<String, Object> extensibleProperties; // may be empty
}
```

> ### List participants flow

Reviewer: Make format consistent with previous heading at same level

#### Participants

> 1. Company1, a Dataspace Participant with an EDC application that wants to discover IDS endpoints (for instance, in order to list contract offers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Company1, a Dataspace Participant with a Dataspace Connector (e.g. EDC application) that wants to discover IDS endpoints (e.g. in order to list contract offers)
```

In this flow, the EDC for Company1 obtains a list of Dataspace Participants and resolves their IDS endpoints.

A precondition for this operation is that participants are registered as (currently valid) Dataspace Participants.

#### Flow sequence

![list-participants](list-participants.png)

1. The EDC for Company1 determines the Dataspace Registry endpoint from the Dataspace DID Document.
2. The EDC for Company1 issues a request to the Dataspace Registry, to list participants.
3. The DA authenticates the request...
4. ... and retrieves credentials from Company1's Identity Hub.
5. The DA authorizes the request by applying the Registry access policy on the obtained Verifiable Credentials. For example, the caller must be a valid 
   Dataspace Participant.
6. The DA obtains the list of Dataspace Participant DID URIs from its storage...
7. ... and returns it synchronously to the caller (Company1 EDC).
8. The EDC for Company1 iterates through the Participants' DID URIs, and retrieves the collection of their IDS endpoints from their DID Documents.

## References

> - [Identity Hub in MVD](https://github.com/agera-edc/IdentityHubFork/blob/main/docs/developer/decision-records/2022-06-08-identity-hub/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Identity Hub in MVD](https://github.com/agera-edc/IdentityHub/blob/main/docs/developer/decision-records/2022-06-08-identity-hub/README.md)
```

> - [Technical specification of Registration Service](https://github.com/Metaform/mvd/blob/main/registration-service/registration-service-tech-spec.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove links to personal repos; this doc should be self-sufficient
